

Hello Mathieu.

1. When SaC library was to be developed as a project, I have been assigned
to take part in that as one of two coauthors and after some mutual thought
we both agreed that Java (at that time) was the most appropriate language,
so to say, for both of us. So it is difficult to explain that decision
in purely technical terms. For sure, any object oriented language will do
for that purpose. If efficiency would be your primary focus then my choice
would be C++.

2. Scout (or equivalently Negascout) is the next natural step after "alpha-beta pruning".
And (as it is the case in SaC) you should take under consideration additional
complemntary techniques like: transposition table, refutation table, killer heuristic, etc.

3. There exist completely different approaches, in particular based on reinforcement learning (see Q-learning).
If I am not mistaken, recent projects (partially due to Google) called "alpha-zero" and "alpha Go" are
based on that.

4. As a starter, I would check on "Chess programming" due to Laramee (I think there are 4 volumes
of that work).

Regards,

Katedra Metod Sztucznej Inteligencji i Matematyki Stosowanej,
Wydział Informatyki,
Zachodniopomorski Uniwersytet Technologiczny w Szczecinie

----- Oryginalna wiadomość -----
Od: "Mathieu Gaucheler" <mathieu.gaucheler@utt.fr>
Do: "pklesk" <pklesk@wi.zut.edu.pl>
Wysłane: piątek, 15 czerwca, 2018 18:13:58
Temat: Introduction to artificial intelligence

Hi,

I will try to implement a heuristic approach to play chess (based on the
approach we've seen in class for Connect Four) . I would like some
advice to do so:

 1. Why did you implement the SaC library in Java ? Why not C++ (or an
    other object oriented language) ? Is it because it was easier or
    because Java have some advantageous data structures ?
 2. I began to implement this in Python (to begin). I implemented
    Minimax and α-β pruning. Is there some other algorithm similar to
    these ?
 3. Is there a different approach apart from creating a tree by
    generating all the children ?
 4. What books or courses that are available online would you advise me
    to read ?

I also wanted to thank you for teaching the "Introduction to AI" course,
it was a very interesting class and I took a lot of interest in the labs.

Best regards,

Mathieu Gaucheler

